# 2013-08-14

## Code

### Queries in `trends.rb`

I've set up `trends.rb` so that you will enter a custom query each time into the script. Trying to anticipate queries from stdin is not worth the time.

The `TARGET` variable will now just be made the filename of the CSV output. I've also set up the query like so:

````ruby
with_topic = data.select{|k,v| 
	v["Date"]==step && 
	(
		v["Topic"].include?("western")
		# AND/OR [another query here]
	)
}.count.to_f
````

### Lots of CSVs in `cooccurrence.rb`

I've extended `coocurrence.rb` so that you can pass it a JSON-formatted query - basically an array of queries structured like this:

````JSON
[
	{"begin": 1750, "end": 1830},
	{"begin": 1831, "end": 1865}
]
````

When generating CSV files, the script will go through each query hash to find the "begin" bound and the "end" bound, and then search through the preliminary edge list, picking out those edges whose dates fall within those bounds.

## Visualizations

### Concept graphs

Created two graphs to demonstrate the concepts beind communciated in the others:

1. A histogram of paintings per year in SAAM

2. A comparison of the "Landscape" topic ratio expressed in one-year intervals, and in a trailing ten-year moving average.

### Changing American genres?

Discovered something interesting with the following queries:

- `landscape`
- `portraiture` (made from a query of: `(portrait OR portrait male OR portrait female OR portrait group)`)
- `western`
- `landscape AND western`

There is a huge drop-off after 1850 in the ratio of portraiture, with an almost equal rise in landscape paintings. What else is interesting is that right in this same period is the only visible lump of "western" paintings, peaking right before the big changes begin.

**Is there something about western genre paintings that irrevocably shifted the preferred genre of American artists?**
