# 2013-08-13

## Finished writing normalize.rb

This goes through the raw JSON produced by `si-scrape/si-parse.rb` and cleans two fields: "Date" and "Topic". 

Dates are simplified, e.g. "c. 1865" becomes "1865", and "1901-1902" becomes "1902", and "n.d." returns nil. Topics are split out of their hierarchical schema and and rewritten as an array of total *unique* objects, e.g. `Cityscape\\Chile\\Puerto Monti` becomes `["Cityscape","Chile","Puerto Monti"]`

### Data note

- **Raw records: 8316**
- **Records with date && topic: 4559**
- **Ratio: %54.8**

## Started `trends.rb`

This script searches through the SAAM JSON by year, recording the ratio of paintings with a certain keyword to the total number of paintings made that same year.

These data can be usefully graphed using 5 or 10-year moving averages. Right now this is most easily done by uploading the output CSV to Google Drive, however an automated generator would be preferable and is on my to-do list.

I am also looking for Ruby libraries that can calculate moving averages in the script rather than waiting for uploading the data to Google Drive.

*Problem*: Google Drive is not reliably showing published charts/tables on external websites.

### Some initial comparisons

#### Ethnicitiy
- `ethnic`
- `african-american`
- `indian`

There is a huge spike in `indian` tagged images in 1833 (something to do with George Catlin series?) African-american does not appear significantly until mid 1940s, and greatly increases after the 1980s

#### Abstraction
- `abstract`
- `geometric`

`abstract` behaves fairly predictably, with a bump in the 1920s and a huge growth peaking in the early 1960s. `geometric` is a significantly smaller share of total paintings, but sees its main plateau in the 1960s, with no bump in the 1920s.

#### Female/Male figures
- `figure female`
- `figure male`

#### Questions

How should we compute moving averages? 10-year window? 5 year? Should it be a 5-year trailing window, or a window that incorporates future values as well?

