# 2013-09-02

## Using data from the Art Inventories Collection

Scraped the entire Smithsonian Art Inventories database.

**Raw records: 443266**
**Normalized records: 284746**
**~64% of records have both date and topics**

### What are the inventories?

From the [Smithsonian website](http://americanart.si.edu/research/programs/inventory/)

	The Inventories of American Painting and Sculpture document more than 400,000 artworks in public and private collections worldwide. The Inventory of American Paintings includes works by artists who were active in America by 1914. The Inventory of American Sculpture has no cut-off date and includes works from the colonial era through contemporary times. These online databases are supplemented by a photographic collection of over 80,000 images. The photographs are available for study purposes in our [Washington, D.C.](http://americanart.si.edu/research/programs/inventory/#contact), office. Digital images are in the process of being added to the online database. [Search the art inventory databases online](http://siris-artinventories.si.edu/ipac20/ipac.jsp?profile=ariall via SIRIS (the Smithsonian Institution Research Information System).


## Visualizing trends

### Genres

Somewhat different results comparing the AIC and SAAM data. While the same general swap from portraiture to landscape appears in the mid-1800s, the AIC data shows the shift happening into the 1860s and later, while the SAAM info shows up earlier.

The notable bump in "western" paintings seen in the SAAM data does *not* appear in the AIC data.
