# 2013-08-15

## Code

### `topicmatch.rb`

Network visualization and analysis can be done by treating paintings as nodes, and shared topics as edges.

I have a basic implementation set up, but I am concerned that it creates far too many edges; unfiltered the graph has 4,534 nodes and 7,582,041 edges!!

I am attempting to pre-filter the edges before loading them into Gephi by using a Ruby method that can detect the overlap between two arrays; in this case, the overlap between the topic arrays for two given entries:

````ruby
topics_one = raw_data[id_one]["Topic"]
topics_two = raw_data[id_two]["Topic"]
weight = (topics_one & topics_two).count
````

This results in a (slightly?) more manageable 2,562,100 edges.

Limiting edge results to only those with a weight higher than 5 results in 22,893 edges.

### Downloading all records

I am also downloading *all* the artwork records from SAAM, not just limited to paintings, to see how the addition of these records changes these visualizations. 

Records are stored in `saam/all_data/JSON/cleaned.json`

Will the addition of series like photographs cause certain terms to be overrepresented, as photographs have their own individual records? I will need to consider ways to mitigate this problem.

Downloading every work of art from SAAM resulted in

- 40,218 raw records

- 19,584 records with date & topics.

Run through `topicmatch.rb` this set generates

- 19,584 nodes

- 232,260 edges

Some preliminary experimentation with the artwork-node graphs shows that, when filtered to a manageable span of time, around forty years or so, interesting patterns emerge. The modularity detection algorithm easily recognizes tightly interconnected series artworks. How long a period can be visualized before the network breaks down into incoherence?

## Visualization

### Reformatted Google Sheet

I've unified all the data on one worksheet called `Data`. The first two (frozen) columns have the year and total number of paintings - these remain constant no matter what the query is. Every query has three columns after that: absolute number of matching paintings, ratio, and 10-yr moving average of those ratios.

I am trying to make this even more efficient by just just importing the "ratio" column from the output of `trends.rb` and running the 10-year average calculation in Google Drive. 

Ideally, I could find an easy method to calculate a moving average in Ruby and just upload the final calculated column. However a quick survey online shows that this would take a bit of fiddling to implement, and for now it seems faster overall to just upload the year-by-year ratios and do the moving average in a spreadsheet program.

### Genre, ctd.

I am further refining the "genre chart" that compares landscape to portraiture trends. I wanted to see if "portrait" keywords (`portrait` OR `portrait male` OR `portrait female` OR `portrait group`) intersected with "figure" keywords also used in the SAAM schema (`figure` OR `figure male` OR `figure female` OR `figure group`).

### Network trends

How do the following variables change depending on period?

- Average degree
- Network diameter
- Network density
- Modularity
- Clustering coefficient

I generated a table of these statistical measures at 20-year intervals.


## Future work

- A fixed 20-year interval may not be the best way to iterate through the data. SAAMs collections are particularly flush for some of these periods, and comparatively skeletal in others (although this may change depending )




